2.41.2 (#1217)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/release-notes/2.41.2.md

If you’re looking for in-depth insights into this dashboard, refer to our [blog post](https://www.percona.com/blog/postgresql-checkpoints-buffers-and-wal-usage-with-percona-monitoring-and-management/).

![!image](../_images/pg_checkpoints_buffers_wal_dashboard.png)

#### PostgreSQL Patroni dashboard

Starting with PMM 2.41.2, we have included a new dashboard designed to monitor [Patroni](https://patroni.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) as an external service. For more information, see our documentation on [external services](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/external.html).

This dashboard facilitates gathering more data for your PostgreSQL cluster inside PMM. 

Read our [blog post](https://www.percona.com/blog/monitoring-a-postgresql-patroni-cluster/) to learn more about this dashboard and how to add Patroni monitoring.

![!image](../_images/patroni_dashboard.png)

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important"
    We would appreciate your feedback on these experimental dashboards to help us enhance it further.

## Improvements

> [PMM-10974](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-10974) - By default, PMM used `pg_stat_statements` for **stat tracking**, but now it uses `pg_stat_monitor`, which provides additional metrics and supports **explains/examples** functionality that `pg_stat_statements` does not.

Reviewer: it actually already used to be pg_stat_monitor as default for some time already. The change we included in 2.41.2 is that when pg_stat_monitor isn't available it fallbacks to pg_stat_statements.

Reviewer 2: Fixed it. @BupycHuk please check

[PMM-12884](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12884) - In PMM dump, the **Address** field on the **Send to Support** screen now comes with the address and port pre-filled, making it easier to send logs to support.

[PMM-12887](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12887) - [Tech Preview] This new experimental dashboard has been added in PMM 2.41.2 for monitoring PostgreSQL checkpoints, buffers and WAL usage.

[PMM-12888](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12888) - [Tech Preview] This new experimental dashboard has been added in PMM 2.41.2 to monitor [Patroni](https://patroni.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) as an external service.

[PMM-12960](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12960) - [Tech Preview] The latest PMM release includes redesigned Kubernetes dashboards with improved clarity and usability.

> [PMM-12806](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12806)- In prior versions, PMM Server would prioritize certain VictoriaMetrics command line flags over environment variables. This behavior has now been addressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PMM-12806](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12806)- In prior versions, PMM Server had certain non-configurable Victoria Metrics settings with default values. This behavior has now been addressed.
```

Reviewer: and it's in both lists: improvements and bugs

Reviewer 2: Fixed. Added it in improvements.
